Syrian officials say an Israeli air
strike has destroyed part of Iran's
diplomatic compound in Damascus Iran's
revolutionary guard says one of its
senior commanders was killed along with
several officers in the suspected
Israeli air strike a foreign Ministry
spokesperson in tan says it's
considering a response and punishment
for the
attack this is what's left of the
Iranian Consulate in
Damascus officials say an Israeli air
strike on the building killed several
people including members of Iran's
Islamic revolutionary
guard we strongly condemn this criminal
act carried out by the Zionist enemy
which led to the death of some innocent
citizens who were passing by the street
so again we emphasize our position
besides our brothers in the Iranian
Embassy and the Islamic Republic of
and we can assure that Syria and the
Islamic Republic don't forget their
enemies among the dead is Brigadier
General Muhammad razar zahi he was a top
commander in the elite KS Force the
foreign operations arm of the Islamic
revolutionary
guard the Israeli military hasn't
commented on the attack though Israel
has been increasing its operations
against Iran linked forces in Syria
since the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks Iran says it reserves the right
to
retaliate we told you before the Zionist
entity knows very well that such crimes
and any kind of crimes will not remain
without
response as Rescuers comb through the
rubble for survivors or bodies concerns
over a rapid escalation of violence in
the region
arising let's bring in Roger Shanahan
here he's a Middle East analyst and
Military expert based in Sydney thanks
for joining us Roger tell us Israel has
allegedly struck the Iranian diplomatic
compound in Syria from a military point
of view why would Israel choose to do
that
now well you would imagine that um given
the seniority of the um military
personel that they were uh targeting
that it uh presented an opportunity
where they had very solid intelligence
um it was of limited uh time value so
they um elected
to um kill those um iig personnel and
had the uh opportunity so it was a
target of opportunity obviously uh
informed by uh quite good intelligence
but it fits into the broader pattern uh
of Israel trying to Target um uh IR Iran
and Iranian supported elements uh in its
region
now several high-ranking members of
Iran's revolutionary guard Corps are
said to been killed in that attack what
do we know about
them yes from what we know uh is that
the um uh IC uh Commander for um
pro-iranian
forces we're largely talking about
Hezbollah here in Syria and Lebanon was
killed uh including uh along with his
Deputy so we're talking about a
significant um uh capability loss in uh
those people um that's going to set back
uh Iranian operations in the region
somewhat everybody can always be
replaced uh obviously but given the
seniority of the people uh that were
killed in one Fell Swoop it shows as we
said before that uh Israeli intelligence
was uh quite solid on this occasion
now Iranian president Ibrahim RI has
just said today that Israel's attack on
Iran's Consulate in Syria will not go
unanswered what might Tran's answer look
like yeah listen this is a very good
question and it's uh one that uh I think
uh analysts and governments uh also
grapple with there's the two questions
these are uh senior uh IC officers so uh
their value to Iran is significant that
kind of attack uh really can't go
unanswered if you want to maintain some
degree of uh deterrence on the Iranian
side and so you'd be looking uh
regionally uh to strike Israel directly
if that's possible so you're probably
looking at pro-iranian groups in Syria
or Iraq or Hezbollah in Lebanon but
there's only really a a Lim to what they
can do then you're looking at uh
International uh targets that represent
Israel in some way shape or form that
having been said uh Iran has in the past
uh threatened retaliation uh but their
options uh are relatively limited
because they want to make they want to
ensure that the situation doesn't go out
of their own control so it's a difficult
um issue about how Iran is going to
respond rer thank you very much for
talking with us today that was Roger
Shanahan Middle East analyst and
Military expert in
Sydney Middle East expert Arash aizi
joins us from Clemson University South
Carolina Israel reportedly attacking an
Iranian Consulate in Syria does that
surprise
you it's not so much surprising but it
is an act of um you know in some ways is
unprecedented uh Israel is really oping
the anti it has changed the usual rules
of of Engagement you see Israel and Iran
have been in something of a shadow of
VAR now for a very long time uh for more
than a decade um but part of the rules
uh was that you know you don't do uh
actions like this certainly attacking a
Iranian consulate which is considered
internationally Iranian territory is is
somewhat unprecedented although Israel
has also of course done many operations
on Iranian soil uh but also it killed a
a rather high ranking irgc official
zahi was very important in many ways in
charge of uh the operations of the irgc
in Syria and Lebanon but it's not
entirely unprecedented as in the last
few months Israel has also uh sort of
killed other officials that are not
quite at this level but not so far from
it either but at any rate it's
definitely a a a dangerous Act of
escalation I if it was Israel what has
it gained by killing this top
Commander Israel has a program of
killing um top irgc officials what it
has gained is that it uh undermines the
abilities of the irgc to support its
allies in the regions that's you know
the irgc is the militia that underg
guards the power of the Iranian regime
uh it has a key role in supplying
Hezbollah in Lebanon um and and also the
some of the Palestinian forces at times
although really in this case is mostly
Hezbollah and and other militias Iraqi
militias and and the rest that operate
on Iran on Syrian territory um now about
what it has gained also I mean it it uh
it's clearly is showing that if Iran is
not able to respond to this it shows
that uh it's not it doesn't have any
deterrence Iran doesn't have any
deterrence against Israel um and from
the initial responses if you look at if
you look at what the foreign minister is
saying and what the foreign minister
spokesperson is saying it might appear
that Iran will do some sort of
retaliation I think against a us uh for
somewhere in the region there are tons
of US forces in the region they might do
some sort of a retaliation retaliatory
attack perhaps one that wouldn't even
lead to US soldiers um getting killed as
this is another rule of Engagement that
Iran has usually tried to observe um um
but there are a lot of push on Iran of
course amongst the supporters of the
regime in Iran and amongst the
supporters in the region for a higher uh
for a more direct retaliation against
Israel um and this is this really puts
us all in a dangerous situation and the
chances of a broader conflict which is
something that Iran has tried to avoid
the United States has tried to avoid um
you know and it's something that many is
in Israel would also like to avoid
becomes more real by the minute when we
see acts like this where do you think
this will lead
though um it's not uh you know as to
what it could immediately happen my best
guess would be that Iran would try to do
a limited retaliation uh um so that uh
it wouldn't go to something broader
because Iran can ill afford a broader
conflict in the region its forces are
not ready um it also uh is trying to
avoid a confrontation and the you know a
broader confrontation between Israel and
Hezbollah a repeat if you will of the
2006 War although such a war if Israel
continues on this track it today it also
bombed Southern Lebanon um today might
you know it might become um inevitable
it's also good to point out the role of
Russia Russia of course condemned this
attack but of course if it truly wanted
to condemn it use his anti-aircraft
forces to stop Israel and hasn't done
that um and also the role of United
States and whether the Biden
Administration knew about this attack
from beforehand and and how much did it
know beforehand and whether it approved
of the Netanyahu government with which
Biden obviously has very open
disagreements and um you know you can
say it's almost fed up with some of its
actions and these are also some of the
other questions that uh will you know
will determine what happens next we
should also remember that the US and
Iran are semi secretly talking in Oman
between each other of course we don't
know the content of those talks but that
calming things down are are their main
goal interesting analysis there from
arish aizi thank
you